hello everyone my name is Alex I'm one
of the expert IELTS teachers here at e2
language comm welcome to your task of
the week for IELTS this is the final one
in this series at the end of this
session I'll tell you where you can find
us while we take a short break
in today's class today we'll be looking
at IELTS listening and in particular
section 2 and we're going to deal with
the map this is our plan I'll give you a
quick overview of what happens in IELTS
listening section 2 will do 6 practice
questions with a map then you'll review
the questions with me and I'll tell you
where you can get some more practice so
I listen apart to a quick overview in
this part you always hear one main
speaker and you'll be answering 10
questions the most common type of
question that you'll get is a map and
multiple choice and so today we're
focusing on the map part it looks
something like this so obviously to
answer this question well or these
questions well you need to be able to
deal with directions like go straight
take the first left head right turn left
keep going and also a language related
to locations like opposite next to
besides on the corner on your ride on
your left
this kind of question can be tricky but
if you're comfortable with that type of
language and if you are well-prepared
it's a breeze so let's have a look at
our example here obviously the first
thing to do is look at the instructions
and they're at the top here label the
map below write the correct letter a to
I next two questions 11 to 16 you can
see on the map these letters a b c d e f
g h and over here i and our questions
are over here on the right from 11 down
to 16 so basically we need to say where
is the restaurant it could be F or it
could be D where is the children's
playground and so on so the first thing
that we really need to do is to identify
the features on the map see what's there
already this will help us to navigate
easily so let's start with the street
names we've got Palm Lane Beach Road
Darling Street Port Street
Grover Street if you're on the
paper-based test I would be circling
those words and saying them out loud in
my head
we've also got some buildings already on
the map the Town Hall up here on Darling
Street we've got the supermarket on the
corner of beach road and darling the
cafe and the library the good news with
a map in IELTS listening is that the
answers always come in order of the
numbers so we're gonna here first where
the restaurant is and then we'll hear
where the children's playground is then
the childcare centre and so on each map
is obviously a bit different and
sometimes it will tell you you are here
or there'll be an X or an entrance which
will tell you where the speaker is going
to begin from in the map that we've got
here but the speaker will probably tell
us where we're standing or where we
should begin so let's find out where the
speaker is
now I know you've all got a map of the
area but it hasn't been updated for some
time so I'd like to spend a few minutes
just explaining where everything is
before you set off to explore now we're
here of course at the library
did you catch that we're here of course
at the library so this will navigate us
now that we know where we're starting
from if the speaker says go out and turn
right we know where we begin quite
important sorry cut that screen so get
ready let's do it remember that you're
writing a letter next to each number so
for 11 restaurant you'll need to write a
or B or C or D let's go now I know
you've all got a map of the area but it
hasn't been updated for some time so I'd
like to spend a few minutes just
explaining where everything is before
you set off to explore now we're here of
course at the library and directly to
our right in this grand old building is
the town cinema there are sadly plans to
turn it into a function Center but for
the time being it's a great place to
catch the latest flicks now if you are
hungry probably the best place to eat is
actually right in front of us on the
other side of growver Street the large
gray building is home to the finest
restaurant in the area and just behind
it you'll find a more casual cafe a good
spot for morning coffees I know some of
you have small kids so you'll be happy
to hear that there's a wonderful
playground in the town from here the
library you just walk right and turn
left at Port Street keep going until you
hit Darling Street and you'll find it on
the corner to your right speaking of
children every Monday there's a story
time hour at the town hall which is not
far from the playground on
thing street opposite the supermarket oh
and for those of you who need to enroll
your kids in childcare there's a brand
new center if you cross Beach Road at
the supermarket and head down palm Lane
the childcare center is the large green
building on your right all right now
once you've dropped the kids off you
might like to head over the road to do
your laundry should you need to there's
a great place on the corner of Beach
Road and palm lane you'll get to know
the staff there pretty well I'd say
probably the most important place to
mention since it's where you're all
going to be working for the next few
months is the hotel actually you can see
it from here just head out of the
library on to Grover Street and it's
just over there on the corner on your
left Oh
lastly someone asked me to recommend a
fitness club in town and unfortunately
it's closed for renovations at the
moment but never fear I can recommend a
fantastic outdoor pool that's open to
the public
from where we are now head right and
take the first left the pool is the
first building you come to on your right
well if there aren't any questions I
think it's time to sort out uniforms and
start our first training sessions in the
main dining hall
so how did you go do you feel pretty
confident with your answers if you do
skip ahead and check the answers with me
if you want to listen again let's do it
together
this time as you listen I'm gonna show
you with the pointer where the speaker
takes us let's go now
I know you've all got a map of the area
but it hasn't been updated for some time
so I'd like to spend a few minutes just
explaining where everything is before
you set off to explore now we're here of
course at the library and directly to
our right in this grand old building is
the town cinema there are sadly plans to
turn it into a function center but for
the time being it's a great place to
catch the latest flicks now if you are
hungry probably the best place to eat is
actually right in front of us on the
other side of growver street the large
gray building is home to the finest
restaurant in the area and just behind
it you'll find a more casual cafe a good
spot for morning coffees I know some of
you have small kids so you'll be happy
to hear that there's a wonderful
playground in the town from here the
library you just walk right and turn
left at Port Street keep going until you
hit Darling Street and you'll find it on
the corner to your right speaking of
children every Monday there's a story
time hour at the town hall which is not
far from the playground on darling
Street opposite the supermarket oh and
for those of you who need to enroll your
kids in childcare there's a brand new
center if you cross Beach Road at the
supermarket and head down palm Lane the
childcare center
is the large green building on your
right alright now once you've dropped
the kids off you might like to head over
the road to do your laundry should you
need to there's a great place on the
corner of Beach Road and palm lane
you'll get to know the staff there
pretty well I'd say probably the most
important place to mention since it's
where you're all going to be working for
the next few months is the hotel
actually you can see it from here just
head out of the library on to Grover
Street and it's just over there on the
corner on your left
Oh lastly someone asked me to recommend
a fitness club in town and unfortunately
it's closed for renovations at the
moment but never fear I can recommend a
fantastic outdoor pool that's open to
the public from where we are now head
right and take the first left the pool
is the first building you come to on
your right
well if there aren't any questions I
think it's time to sort out uniforms and
start our first training sessions in the
main dining hall and there you go it's
that easy so these are the answers 11 D
12 F 13 a 14 C 15 I and 16 G now if you
need more practice with listening and in
particular with maps we have a huge
section dealing with this in our course
on eating language comm for more
practice with IELTS listening and in
particular Maps jump onto eating
language comm click on your course go to
the listening section and down to plan
map diagram labeling to access heaps of
practice activities including an
overview plan labeling math labeling and
Grahame labeling and remember also that
you can practice your grammar without
course skills come to our live classes
twice everyday catch up with recorded
classes you can also submit work for
assessment or book a one-on-one tutorial
as I said this is the last in this
series of our IELTS task of the week but
it's all happening over on e to language
comm so come over and join us for our
daily live classes book a one-on-one
tutorial I'll have your work assessed
and make your way through our huge IELTS
course over there we'll see you again
soon bye
[Music]